README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/wntrblm/nox/raw/main/docs/_static/alice.png" alt="logo" width=50%>
</p>

# Nox

[![Nox](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A6%8A-Nox-D85E00.svg)](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/wntrblm/nox)](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/nox.svg?logo=python)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/nox)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/wntrblm/nox?logo=github&sort=semver)](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox)
[![Code Style](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox)
[![CI](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![Downloads](https://static.pepy.tech/personalized-badge/nox?period=total&units=international_system&left_color=grey&right_color=green&left_text=Downloads)](https://pepy.tech/project/nox)

*Flexible test automation with Python*

* **Documentation:** [https://nox.readthedocs.io](https://nox.readthedocs.io)

* **Source Code:** [https://github.com/wntrblm/nox](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox)

## Overview

`nox` is a command-line tool that automates testing in multiple Python environments, similar to [tox][]. Unlike tox, Nox uses a standard Python file for configuration:

```python
import nox


@nox.session
def tests(session: nox.Session) -> None:
    session.install("pytest")
    session.run("pytest")

@nox.session
def lint(session: nox.Session) -> None:
    session.install("flake8")
    session.run("flake8", "--import-order-style", "google")
```

## Installation

Nox is designed to be installed globally (not in a project virtual environment), the recommended way of doing this is via [pipx], a tool designed to install python CLI programs whilst keeping them separate from your global or system python.

To install Nox with [pipx][]:

```shell
pipx install nox
```

You can also use [pip][] in your global python:

```shell
python3 -m pip install nox
```

You may want to user the [user-site][] to avoid messing with your Global python install:

```shell
python3 -m pip install --user nox
```

## Usage

### List all sessions

```shell
nox -l/--list
```

### Run all sessions

```shell
nox
```

### Run a particular session

```shell
nox -s/--session test
```

Checkout the [docs](https://nox.readthedocs.io) for more! 🎉

## Contributing

Nox is an open source project and welcomes contributions of all kinds, checkout the [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for help on how to help us out!

All contributors must follow the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and be nice to one another! 😃

[tox]: https://tox.readthedocs.io
[pipx]: https://pypa.github.io/pipx/
[pip]: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/
[user-site]: https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/tutorials/installing-packages/#installing-to-the-user-site

Commit message:

feat: add a `nox --usage <session>` command to print full docstrings for provided sessions (#1064)
* Add `--usage` command scaffold

Co-Authored-By: Thomas <5105354+thomaslapiana@users.noreply.github.com>

* Get docstring of a session function

* Add printing docstrings for usage CLI command

* Make help message clearer

* Fix bug with `default=False` sessions not working

* Add tests for `SessionRunner.full_description`

* Add some docs

* More tests

* Remove some lint

* Coverage

---------

Co-authored-by: Thomas <5105354+thomaslapiana@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/wntrblm/nox/raw/main/docs/_static/alice.png" alt="logo" width=50%>
</p>

# Nox

[![Nox](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A6%8A-Nox-D85E00.svg)](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/wntrblm/nox)](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/nox.svg?logo=python)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/nox)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/wntrblm/nox?logo=github&sort=semver)](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox)
[![Code Style](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox)
[![CI](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![Downloads](https://static.pepy.tech/personalized-badge/nox?period=total&units=international_system&left_color=grey&right_color=green&left_text=Downloads)](https://pepy.tech/project/nox)

*Flexible test automation with Python*

* **Documentation:** [https://nox.readthedocs.io](https://nox.readthedocs.io)

* **Source Code:** [https://github.com/wntrblm/nox](https://github.com/wntrblm/nox)

## Overview

`nox` is a command-line tool that automates testing in multiple Python environments, similar to [tox][]. Unlike tox, Nox uses a standard Python file for configuration:

```python
import nox


@nox.session
def tests(session: nox.Session) -> None:
    session.install("pytest")
    session.run("pytest")

@nox.session
def lint(session: nox.Session) -> None:
    session.install("flake8")
    session.run("flake8", "--import-order-style", "google")
```

## Installation

Nox is designed to be installed globally (not in a project virtual environment), the recommended way of doing this is via [pipx], a tool designed to install python CLI programs whilst keeping them separate from your global or system python.

To install Nox with [pipx][]:

```shell
pipx install nox
```

You can also use [pip][] in your global python:

```shell
python3 -m pip install nox
```

You may want to user the [user-site][] to avoid messing with your Global python install:

```shell
python3 -m pip install --user nox
```

## Usage

### List all sessions

```shell
nox -l/--list
```

### Get help on a particular session (if it has a docstring)

```shell
nox --usage test
```

### Run all sessions

```shell
nox
```

### Run a particular session

```shell
nox -s/--session test
```

Checkout the [docs](https://nox.readthedocs.io) for more! 🎉

## Contributing

Nox is an open source project and welcomes contributions of all kinds, checkout the [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for help on how to help us out!

All contributors must follow the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and be nice to one another! 😃

[tox]: https://tox.readthedocs.io
[pipx]: https://pypa.github.io/pipx/
[pip]: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/
[user-site]: https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/tutorials/installing-packages/#installing-to-the-user-site
